.TH avifix 1 "16th January 2002" "avifix(1)"
.SH NAME
avifix \- fix header of AVI-file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B avifix
[
.B -i
.I name
[
.B -F
.I string
] [
.B -f
.IB val1 , val2
] [
.B -N 0x
.I NN
] [
.B -b
.I bitrate
] [
.B -e
.IB rate [, bits [, channels ]]
] [
.B -a
.I num
] [
.B -v
] ]
.SH COPYRIGHT
\fBavifix\fP is Copyright (C) by Thomas Oestreich.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B avifix
fixes the header of an AVI-file with the supplied parameters.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-i\fP \fIname\fP
Specify the name of the AVI-file.
.TP
\fB-F\fP \fIstring\fP
Specify the video codec as FourCC.
.br
Possible values are \fBRGB\fP, \fBRIFF\fP and \fBTIFF\fP. ???
.TP
.BI -f " val1,val2"
Use this option to change the frame rate and scale information in the
header of the AVI-file.  Both values must not be < 0.
.TP
.BI -N " 0xnn"
Use this option to change the audio format identifier in the header of
the AVI-file.  Here are some possible values:

0x1    PCM uncompressed audio

0x50   MPEG layer-2 aka MP2

0x55   MPEG layer-3 aka MP3

0x2000 AC3 audio
.TP
.BI -b " bitrate"
Use this option to change the encoder bitrate in the header of the
AVI-file.  \fIbitrate\fP has to be given in units of kbps.
.TP
.BI -e " rate[,bits[,channels]]"
Use this option to change the audio stream parameters of in the header
of the AVI-file.
.TP
.BI -a " num"
Use this option to change the audio stream parameters of audio track number
\fInum\fP in the header of the AVI-file.
.TP
.B -v
Print version information and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
The command
.PP
.B avifix -i my_file.avi -f 30,1
.PP
changes the header of the file \fImy_file.avi\fP and sets the frame
rate to 30 fps.
.SH AUTHORS
.B avifix
was written by Thomas Oestreich
.br
<ostreich@theorie.physik.uni-goettingen.de> with contributions from
many others.  See AUTHORS for details.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR avimerge (1),
.BR avisplit (1),
.BR tccat (1),
.BR tcdecode (1),
.BR tcdemux (1),
.BR tcextract (1),
.BR tcprobe (1),
.BR tcscan (1),
.BR transcode (1)
