.TH avimerge 1 "26th January 2004" "avimerge(1)"
.SH NAME
avimerge \- merge several AVI-files into one
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B avimerge
.B -o
.I name
.B -i
.IB file1 " [ " file2 " [ " .\|.\|. " ] ] "
[
.B -p
.IB file
] [
.B -a
.I num
] [
.B -A
.I num
] [
.B -b
.I num
] [
.B -c
] [
.B -f
.I commentfile
] [
.B -x
.I indexfile
]
.SH COPYRIGHT
\fBavimerge\fP is Copyright (C) by Thomas Oestreich.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B avimerge
is a  versatile tool.  It can contatenate several AVI files into one. It can
also be used to fix an index of a broken file and can also replace audio tracks
or muxes new ones. It can read raw AC3 and MP3 files for multplexing.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "\-o " name
Specify the name of the output file.
.TP
.BI "\-i " file
Specify the name(s) of the input file(s) to merge into the output
file.
.TP
.BI "\-p " file
Specify the name of the audio file to multiplex into the output file. The type
of file can be either another AVI file or an MP3 or AC3 file.
.TP
.BI "\-b " num
Specify if avimerge should write an VBR mp3 header into the AVI file. Default
is dependent on the input file (and usually correct). \fInum\fP is either 1 or
0.
.TP
.B \-c
Drop video frames in case audio is missing [off]
.br
Only when merging multiple AVI files. Some AVI files run a little bit (usually
for one or two video frames) short on audio. This means avimerge cannot keep up
sync when concatinating them. The files play fine when played individually but
not when merged because audio from the new file gets played back with video
from the old file.
.B avimerge
will print a message like
.nf

  No audiodata left for track 0->0 (59950.25=59950.25) continuing ..

.fi
When you turn on the -c option, the video which is too much will be dropped.
.TP
.BI "\-f " commentfile
Read AVI tombstone data for header comments from \fIcommentfile\fP. See
/docs/avi_comments.txt for a sample.
.TP
.BI "\-x " indexfile
Read the AVI index from
.I indexfile.
See aviindex(1) for information on how
to create such a file.
.TP
.BI "\-a " num
Specify the number of the audio track you want to use from the
.I input
file.
.TP
.BI "\-A " num
Specify the number of the audio track you want to use in the
.I output
file. If you specify an existing track number, the track will be replaced. If
omitted, the next free slot will be used.
.SH EXAMPLES
The command

.nf
.B avimerge -o big.avi -i my_file1.avi my_file2.avi my_file3.avi
.fi

merges the three input files \fImy_file[123].avi\fP into one big AVI-file
\fIbig.avi\fP.

.nf
.B avimerge -o out.avi -i in.avi -p audio2.avi -a 1
.fi

merges track number 1 form in.avi to the next free track number in out.avi. You can
create audio-only AVI-files using

.nf
.B  transcode -i song.mp3 -x null,mp3 -g 0x0 -y raw -a 1 -o audio2.avi -u 50
.fi

The command

.nf
.B avimerge -o out.avi -i in.avi -p sound.mp3
.fi

merges the file sound.mp3 as an additional audio track into out.avi.

.SH AUTHORS
.B avimerge
was written by Thomas Oestreich
.br
<ostreich@theorie.physik.uni-goettingen.de> with contributions from
many others.  See AUTHORS for details.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR aviindex (1),
.BR avifix (1),
.BR avisplit (1),
.BR tccat (1),
.BR tcdecode (1),
.BR tcdemux (1),
.BR tcextract (1),
.BR tcprobe (1),
.BR tcscan (1),
.BR transcode (1)
