.TH avisync 1 "26th June 2003" "avisync(1)"
.SH NAME
avisync \- adjust audio synchronisation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B avisync
[
.B -o
.I file
.B -i
.IB file
.B -q
.B -n
.IB num
.B -b
.IB num
.B -a
.I track
.B -f
.IB commentfile
]
.SH COPYRIGHT
\fBavisync\fP is Copyright (C) by Thomas Oestreich.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B avisync
shift audio on frame basis.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-o\fP \fIname\fP
Specify the name of the output file.
.TP
\fB-i\fP \fIfile\fP
Specify the name of the input file.
.TP
\fB-q\fP
be less verbose.
.TP
\fB-n\fP \fIcount\fP
shift audio by \fIcount\fP frames. If \fIcount\fP is positive, audio
starts with audio frame \fIcount\fP at the beginning of the AVI-file. If
\fIcount\fP is negative, audio is prepended \fIcount\fP padding frames.
.TP
\fB-a\fP \fItrack\fP
Specify the number of the audio channel to shift.
.TP
\fB-b\fP \fInum\fP
Specify if avisync should write an VBR mp3 header into the AVI file. Default is
1 because it does not hurt. \fInum\fP is either 1 or 0.
.TP
\fB-f\fP \fIcommentfile\fP
Read AVI tombstone data for header comments from \fIcommentfile\fP. See
/docs/avi_comments.txt for a sample.
.SH EXAMPLES
The command
.PP
.B avisync -i my_file1.avi -o out.avi -n -10
.PP
puts 10 audio frames at the beginning of the AVI-file.
.PP
E.g. if the audio is delayed about 200 ms (0.2 seconds) and you're working with
a 25 frames per second AVI-File, you need to shift the audio 200/40 = 5 frames
since one frame is 40 ms long.
.SH AUTHORS
.B avisync
was written by Thomas Oestreich
.br
<ostreich@theorie.physik.uni-goettingen.de> with contributions from
many others.  See AUTHORS for details.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR aviindex (1),
.BR avifix (1),
.BR avimerge (1),
.BR avisplit (1),
.BR tccat (1),
.BR tcdecode (1),
.BR tcdemux (1),
.BR tcextract (1),
.BR tcprobe (1),
.BR tcscan (1),
.BR transcode (1)
