.TH tccat 1 "15th January 2002" "tccat(1)"
.SH NAME
tccat \- concatenate multimedia streams from medium and print on the standard output
.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP
.B tccat
.B -i
.I name
[
.B -t
.I magic
] [
.B -T
.I title[,chapter[,angle]]
] [
.B -L
] [
.B -S
.I n
] [
.B -P
] [
.B -a
] [
.B -d
.I mode
] [
.B -v
]
.SH COPYRIGHT
\fBtccat\fP is Copyright (C) by Thomas Oestreich.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tccat
is part of and usually called by \fBtranscode\fP.
.br
However, it can also be used independently.
.br
\fBtccat\fP reads source (from stdin if not explicitely defined) and
prints on the standard output. Directory contents is concatenated, if
source files have the same format. Multiple AVI-files are also
supported.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB-i \fIname\fP"
Specify input source.  If ommited, \fIstdin\fP is assumed.
.br
You can specify a file, directory, device, mountpoint or host address
as input source.  \fBtccat\fP usually handles the different types
correctly.
.IP "\fB-t\fP \fImagic\fP"
Tell \fBtccat\fP about the type of input.  Currently only \fBdvd\fP
is supported - any other parameter will be ignored.
.IP "\fB-T \fItitle\fP[\fB,\fIchapter\fR[\fB,\fIangle\fR]]"
Select DVD
.I title
and extract only a single
.I chapter
with selected viewing
.I angle\fP.
Setting the argument
.I chapter
to \fB-1\fP means to process all available chapters on the DVD.
.br
If this option is given, the input type of \fBdvd\fP will also be
assumed (see option \fB-t\fP).
.IP "\fB-L\fP"
This option tells \fBtccat\fP to loop through all chapters starting at
the one given with the option \fB-T\fP.
.IP "\fB-S\fP \fIn\fP"
Seek to program stream (VOB) offset \fIn\fPx2kB before starting output.
.IP "\fB-P\fP"
Stream full DVD title specified by -T.
.IP "\fB-a\fP"
Use this option to dump an AVI-file/socket audio stream. The default
is to extract and concatenate AVI-file video stream.
.IP "\fB-d\fP \fIlevel\fP"
With this option you can specify a bitmask to enable different levels
of verbosity (if supported).  You can combine several levels by adding the
corresponding values:

QUIET         0

INFO          1

DEBUG         2

STATS         4

WATCH         8

FLIST        16

VIDCORE      32

SYNC         64

COUNTER     128

PRIVATE     256
.IP "\fB-v\fP"
Print version information and exit.
.SH NOTES
\fBtccat\fP is a front end for streaming various source types and is used in \fBtranscode\fP's import modules.
.SH EXAMPLES
The command
.PP
.B tccat -i /dev/dvd -T 1,-1 | mplayer -
.PP
reads all chapters belonging to title \fI1\fP of a DVD (assuming that
/dev/dvd/ is a symbolic link to a real DVD device) and pipes a
MPEG program stream into player.
.SH AUTHORS
.B tccat
was written by Thomas Oestreich
.br
<ostreich@theorie.physik.uni-goettingen.de> with contributions from
many others.  See AUTHORS for details.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR avifix (1),
.BR avimerge (1),
.BR avisplit (1),
.BR tcdecode (1),
.BR tcdemux (1),
.BR tcextract (1),
.BR tcprobe (1),
.BR tcscan (1),
.BR transcode (1)
