.TH tcdecode 1 "23th August 2003" "tcdecode(1)"
.SH NAME
tcdecode \- read multimedia streams from medium, decode to raw format and print to standard output
.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP
.B tcdecode
.B -i
.I name
[
.B -x
.I codec
] [
.B -t
.I package
] [
.B -g
.I WxH
] [
.B -s
.I c,f,r
] [
.B -C
.I s-e
] [
.B -y
.I codec
] [
.B -Y
] [
.B -Q
.I mode
] [
.B -A
.I flag
] [
.B -d
.I verbosity
] [
.B -v
]
.SH COPYRIGHT
\fBtcdecode\fP is Copyright (C) by Thomas Oestreich.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tcdecode
is part of and usually called by \fBtranscode\fP.
.br
However, it can also be used independently.
.br
\fBtcdecode\fP reads source (from stdin if not explicitely defined) and
prints on the standard output.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB-i \fIname\fP"
Specify input source.  If ommited, \fIstdin\fP is assumed.
\fBtcdecode\fP reads streams from file or from stdin.

.IP "\fB-g \fIWxH\fP"
video frame width and height [720x576]

.IP "\fB-C \fIs-e\fP"
decode and print out only this frame interval (video) or bytes (audio) [all].

.IP "\fB-x \fIcodec\fP"
source codec, if not detected of reading from stdin. This option also specifies video and audio context of the source for decoding. Currently, supported parameter for \fIcodec\fP are

.RS 8
.TS
lI c l.
mp3	MPEG audio	(lame)
ac3	AC3 audio	(liba52)
dv	Digital Video DV	(libdv)
mpeg2	MPEG video	(libmpeg2)
yv12	Y'CbCr YUV
mov	Quicktime	(libquicktime)
.TE
.RE

.IP "\fB-t \fIpackage\fP"
Currently only argument supported is "lavc". Use the codec by -x from this package. Available (-x) codecs for \fIlavc\fP are:
mpeg2, divx3, divx, divx4, mp42, mjpg, rv10, svq1, svq3, vp3, 4xm, wmv1, wmv2, hfyu, indeo3, h263p, h263i


.IP "\fB-y \fIcodec\fP"
target codec. \fB tcdecode \fP only decodes to raw format suitable for transcode. Valid option parameter for \fIcodec\fP are

.RS 8
.TS
lI r.
rgb	RGB 24bit
yv12	Y'CbCr YUV
yuy2	4:2:2 YUV
pcm	SIGNED LE 16bit PCM
.TE
.RE
.IP "\fB-s\fP \fIc,f,r\fP"
audio gain for AC3 downmixing [1.0,1.0,1.0]

.IP "\fB-Y\fP"
decoded Digital Video (raw) YUV frame is in YUY2 (packet) format using libdv. Downsample frame to YV12. PAL users should compile libdv with --with-pal-yuv=YV12 to avoid this option [off]

.IP "\fB-A\fP \fIflag\fP"
audio flag for AC3/A52 decoder [none]. This flag determines the down-mixing
configuration. Valid choices for \fIflag\fP are determined by the following
bits set:

.RS 8
.TS
l r.
drc off	1
demux	2
dolby off	4
.TE
.RE

Add those numbers to turn multiple options on.

.IP "\fB-Q\fP \fImode\fP"
decoding quality. Certain codecs, e.g., DV with libdv allow for changing
this parameter if speed is prefered over quality.
Valid parameter are 1=fastest-5=best [5].

.IP "\fB-d\fP \fIlevel\fP"
With this option you can specify a bitmask to enable different levels
of verbosity (if supported).  You can combine several levels by adding the
corresponding values:

.RS 8
.TS
l r.
QUIET	0
INFO	1
DEBUG	2
STATS	4
WATCH	8
FLIST	16
VIDCORE	32
SYNC	64
COUNTER	128
PRIVATE	256
.TE
.RE

.IP "\fB-v\fP"
Print version information and exit.

.IP "\fB-X\fP \fItype\fP"
enforce experimental IA32/AMD64 acceleration using a comma-separated list of types [autodetect].
\fItype\fR may any one of
.RS 8
.TS
lI c l.
C	No acceleration
asm	plain x86 assembly
mmx	MMX instruction set
3dnow	3DNow! instruction set
sse	SSE instruction set
sse2	SSE2 instruction set
.TE
.RE
.RE

.SH NOTES
\fBtcdecode\fP is a front end for decoding various sources and is used in \fBtranscode(1)\fP's import modules.
.SH EXAMPLES
The command
.nf
\	tcdecode -i foo.mp3 -x mp3
.fi
decodes an MPEG audio stream and prints raw PCM data to stdout.

The command
.nf
\	tcextract -i foo.avi -x mp3 | tcdecode -x mp3
.fi
extracts an MPEG audio track from the AVI-file foo.avi and pipes the frames into the decoder

.PP
.SH AUTHORS
.B tcdecode
was written by Thomas Oestreich
.br
<ostreich@theorie.physik.uni-goettingen.de> with contributions from
many others.  See AUTHORS for details.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR avifix (1),
.BR avisync (1),
.BR avimerge (1),
.BR avisplit (1),
.BR tcprobe (1),
.BR tcscan (1),
.BR tccat (1),
.BR tcdemux (1),
.BR tcextract (1),
.BR tcdecode (1),
.BR transcode (1)
.br
