.TH tcextract 1 "26th November 2002" "tcextract(1)"
.SH NAME
tcextract \- read multimedia file from medium, extract or demultiplex requested stream and print to standard output
.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP
.B tcextract
.B -i
.I name
[
.B -x
.I codec
] [
.B -t
.I magic
] [
.B -a
.I track
] [
.B -C
.I s-e
] [
.B -d
.I verbosity
] [
.B -v
]
.SH COPYRIGHT
\fBtcextract\fP is Copyright (C) by Thomas Oestreich.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tcextract
is part of and usually called by \fBtranscode\fP.
.br
However, it can also be used independently.
.br
\fBtcextract\fP reads source (from stdin if not explicitely defined) and
prints on the standard output.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB-i \fIname\fP"
Specify input source.  If ommited, \fIstdin\fP is assumed.
\fBtcextract\fP reads streams from file or from stdin.

.IP "\fB-C \fIs-e\fP"
extract and print out only this frame interval (video) or bytes (audio) [all]. This option is only supported if the source contains proper information to perform a selective extraction.

.IP "\fB-t \fImagic\fP"
source file magic. This option is used to identify the source file format if reading is performed from stdin or \fItcextract\fP fails to identify the source
file format. Supported formats are labeled with \fImagic\fP:

avi		RIFF AVI-file

vob		MPEG program streams

m2v		MPEG elementary video stream

vdr		MPEG digital video recording

raw		raw bitstream

wav		RIFF WAVE audio

yuv4mpeg	mjpeg-tools stream header format

.IP "\fB-x \fIcodec\fP"
source pdeudo-codec, if not detected when reading from stdin. Currently, supported parameter for \fIcodec\fP are

mp3		MPEG audio

ac3		AC3 audio

a52		A52 audio

dv		Digital Video DV

mpeg2		MPEG video

yv12		Y'CbCr YUV

rgb		RGB 24-bit

ps1		MPEG private stream (subtitles)

pcm		raw audio stream

.IP "\fB-a \fItrack\fP"
extract selected audio or video track from source.

.IP "\fB-d\fP \fIlevel\fP"
With this option you can specify a bitmask to enable different levels
of verbosity (if supported).  You can combine several levels by adding the
corresponding values:

QUIET         0

INFO          1

DEBUG         2

STATS         4

WATCH         8

FLIST        16

VIDCORE      32

SYNC         64

COUNTER     128

PRIVATE     256
.IP "\fB-v\fP"
Print version information and exit.


.SH NOTES
\fBtcextract\fP is a front end for extracting various raw or encoded audio/video tracks from a source and is used in \fBtranscode\fP's import pipeline.

.SH EXAMPLES
The command
.B tcextract -i foo.avi -x mp3 -a 3
extracts MPEG audio track 3 from the AVI-file foo.avi and prints the bitstream to stdout.

.PP
.SH AUTHORS
.B tcextract
was written by Thomas Oestreich
.br
<ostreich@theorie.physik.uni-goettingen.de> with contributions from
many others.  See AUTHORS for details.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR avifix (1),
.BR avisync (1),
.BR avimerge (1),
.BR avisplit (1),
.BR tcprobe (1),
.BR tcscan (1),
.BR tccat (1),
.BR tcdemux (1),
.BR tcextract (1),
.BR tcdecode (1),
.BR transcode (1)
