.TH tcmodinfo 1 "21th January 2003" "tcmodinfo(1)"
.SH NAME
tcmodinfo \- Get and Set information in transcode modules
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B tcmodinfo
[
.B -i
.I name
] [
.B -m
.I path
] [
.B -t
.I type
] [
.B -M
.I param
] [
.B -C
.I param
] [
.B -s
.I socket
] [
.B -p
] [
.B -d
.I verbosity
] [
.B -v
]
.SH COPYRIGHT
\fBtcmodinfo\fP is Copyright (C) by Tilmann Bitterberg/Transcode Team
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tcmodinfo
loads a supplied transcode(1) module and prints its parameters, or
inquiry about default settings. It can also connect to transcode through
a socket to do runtime configuration of transcode and its filters.
Anyway, this last feature may be moved to some other helper program
in future releases.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-i\fP \fIname\fP
Specify the name of the module. \fIName\fP is specified without the prefix
.B (i.e., filter_)_
and without the suffix
.B \.so
So if you want information about filter_smooth.so, just supply
.B smooth
.TP
\fB-m\fP \fIpath\fP
Look in \fIPath\fP instead of the compiled-in module path for a module.
.TP
\fB-t\fP \fItype\fP
Specify the \fIType\fP of module to load. Default is filter modules.
In current (1.1.0) release, tcmodinfo support 'filter', 'encode' and 'multiplex'
module types. More types will be added in future releases, to cover all
the transcode module range.
.TP
\fB-M\fP \fIparameter\fP
Print out the default setting of given parameter of a given (use -i/-t options
too) module. If parameter isn't known, nothing will be print out.
.br
Caution: -M can't be used together with -C
.TP
\fB-C\fP \fIconfiguration string\fP
Request to configure the module using given configuration string.
Meaning of configuration string is of course module dependent, but format
is always
.br
param1:key1=val1:param2:param3:key2=val2
.br
This option is used for debug purposes, you usually shouldn't need it.
.br
Caution: -C can't be used together with -M
.TP
\fB-s\fP \fIsocket\fP
Connect to socket \fIsocket\fP. You can use this socket to do runtime
configuration of transcode. For all the boring details about the socket
protocol have a look at /docs/filter\-socket.txt. transcode has to be started
with the \fB\-\-socket\fP option to open the socket.
.TP
\fB-d\fP \fIverbosity\fP
Specify the verbosiness level to use, like transcode does. Default value
is 1 (TC_INFO verbosiness).
.TP
.B -p
Print the compiled-in module path and exit.
.TP
.B -v
Print version information and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
The command
.PP
.B tcmodinfo \-i smooth
.PP
prints information about the smooth filter.
.PP
.B tcmodinfo \-i levels -t filter
.PP
same as above for levels filter (-t filter it's the default)
.PP
.B tcmodinfo \-i raw -t multiplex
.PP
same as above for raw multiplexor
.PP
.B tcmodinfo \-i xvid -t encode
.PP
same as above for XviD encoder
.PP
.B transcode \-\-socket /tmp/tc\-socket &
.br
.B echo help | tcmodinfo \-s /tmp/tc\-socket
.PP
prints the socket help text and exits.
.PP
.B tcmodinfo \-s /tmp/tc\-socket
.PP
Will drop you into an interactive "shell" where you can talk to the socket.
.SH AUTHORS
.B tcmodinfo
was written by Tilmann Bitterberg
.br
<transcode@tibit.org> with contributions from
many others.  See AUTHORS for details.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR avimerge (1),
.BR avisplit (1),
.BR tccat (1),
.BR tcdecode (1),
.BR tcdemux (1),
.BR tcextract (1),
.BR tcprobe (1),
.BR tcscan (1),
.BR transcode (1)

