.TH tcxmlcheck 1 "29th June 2003" "tcxmlcheck(1)"
.SH NAME
tcxmlcheck \- Check information in smil input file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B tcxmlcheck
[
.BI options
] [
.BI -
]
.SH COPYRIGHT
\fBtcxmlcheck\fP is Copyright (C) by Malanchini Marzio
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tcxmlcheck
Check a smil input file. Most of the options are used by transcode at run time.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-i\fP \fIname\fP
Specify the name of the input video/audio smil file [stdin].
.TP
\fB-p\fP \fIname\fP
Specify the name of the ausiliary audio smil file [none]
.TP
\fB-B\fP
Binary output to stdout (used by transcode) [off]
Force to print to stdout the vob structure of the smil file
.TP
.B -S
Write stdin into shared memory (used by transcode)[off].
This is used by transcode at run time to store the vob information that will be modified by calling \fBtcxmlcheck\fP with the -V or -A options.
.TP
.B -V
Check only video smil file [off].
This is used by transcode at run time: it read the smil file to override some information in the vob structure.
.TP
.B -A
Check only ausiliary audio smil file [off].
This is used by transcode at run time: it read the smil file to override some information in the vob structure.
.TP
.B -v
Print the version
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Command:
.PP
.B tcxmlcheck \-i filename.smil
.PP
Return \fB0\fP if the input file is correct, \fB1\fP with an error message in the other cases.
.PP
.B tcxmlcheck -i filename.smil -S -B -V
.PP
Analyze the \fBfilename.smil\fP and store the vob structure into share memory (used only by transcode at run time).
.PP
.PP
.B tcxmlcheck -i filename.smil -B -V
.PP
Retrive the content from the share memory related to \fBfilename.smil\fP (used only by transcode at run time).
.PP
.SH AUTHORS
.B tcxmlcheck
was written by Marzio Malanchini
.br
<marzio_malanchini@vodafone.it>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR transcode (1)
